Mon-32851 [gorgone] service auto-discovery only the services associated to one host are created (#3160)
centreon/centreon: centreon-gorgone/docs/modules.md

* Plugins
  * [Newtest](../docs/modules/plugins/newtest.md)
  * [Scom](../docs/modules/plugins/scom.md)

# Module implementation
work in progress, may not be complete nor true.

Each module should have a hook.pm and a class.pm file with some mandatory function implemented.

## hook.pm

> mainly used for creating the module process(es)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mainly used for creating the module process(es)

```

and route event to it each time a new message is received by gorgone.

### const EVENTS []

> array defining all events this module can process. Optionally add api endpoint for events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Array defining all events this module can process. Optionally add API endpoint for events.

```

### const NAME
### const NAMESPACE

### gently()
Called by gorgone-core when stopping the module.
### register()
### init()

> called by library::loadmodule to initialise the module. Should create a child process as it's not made by gorgone-core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Called by library::loadmodule to initialize the module. Should create a child process as it's not made by gorgone-core.

```

### routing()
### kill()
### check()
### broadcast()
### create_child()
Not strictly required, but present every time, used to instantiate a new child process by the init() function.\
Inside the child process a class.pm object is created and the class->run method is started. 

## class.pm

> this class must inherit module.pm package.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class must inherit module.pm package.\

```

> this object is most of the time (maybe all ?) a singleton.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This object is most of the time (maybe all ?) a singleton.\

```

It will be created by hook.pm when starting the module.

> This is the workhorse who will process all event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the workhorse that will process all events.

```

> It seem like none of theeese method will be called by gorgone-core, so naming are not required to follow this convention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It seems like none of these methods will be called by gorgone-core, so naming is not required to follow this convention.

```

(please keep the code base consistent if you make a new module).
### new()
Class constructor

### run()

> will be called by hook.pm. this method should wait for event and dispatch them accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Will be called by hook.pm. This method should wait for event and dispatch them accordingly.

```

> use EV library to wait for new thing to do, either by waiting on the zmq file descriptor (fd) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses EV library to wait for new thing to do, either by waiting on the ZMQ file descriptor (fd)

```

or with a periodic timer.\

> Generally wait for new data on zmq socket with EV::io(), and call event() when there is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally waits for new data on ZMQ socket with EV::io(), and call event() when there is.

```

### event()

> read data from zmq socket, and act on it, generally by launching an action_* method to process the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reads data from ZMQ socket, and acts on it, generally by launching an action_* method to process the event.

```

> module.pm parent class do have an event() method, so it's not mandatory to implement it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module.pm parent class has an event() method, so it's not mandatory to implement it. 

```

### action_*()

> method called by event() when a zmq message is found.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Method called by event() when a ZMQ message is found.\

```
